A big part of being a developer is being able to use the terminal or the command line.
Well what is it.
In this video we're going to tackle this question and teach you a couple of very useful comments.
Now on a Mac you simply do command space and type in terminal press enter and then the terminal will
open for you.
It's one of your applications and it's on every computer.
If you're on a Windows machine then it is the command prompt.
But what is it.
Well it's how humans originally communicated with computers up until the 1980s.
It was the main way humans gave instructions to computers and computers gave output to the humans.
We didn't have something called the gooey or the graphical user interface such as me opening up a new
folder and changing the name of this folder or opening up Google Chrome.
I don't really need to know how this is done behind the scenes.
I just click on an icon and it opens it up magically for me but command lines are really useful because
you can do the exact same thing that you do visually on a graphical user interface like I have here
on the command line.
But they tend to be much much faster to do as I'm going to show you in this video.
And they're also common ways to access different computers around the world like if you need to access
a server in another country where your web app is hosted.
Well you you'd use the command line and I'll show you how to do that later on in the course now in your
day to day job.
You'll be using at the terminal a lot because you'll have to access servers the database your front
end application but you can do all that in one from the terminal.
You can also download scripts that other people have written from the internet so you can use in your
projects.
Now these are all things I'm going to show you in the later sections.
The commands that I'm about to show you work on a Mac or a Linux for Windows.
I'll have the Windows version command at the bottom of the video as we progress.
Most of them are the same but there are a few differences.
So let's get started the first comment I'm going to show you is the LSI comment.
I simply type in and press enter and it lists everything that is in my current directory.
What is my current directory.
Well I do p WD for present working directory and I see that I'm in the users.
That's my user name.
So I'm in my username folder and these are all the things available to me if I do C D then I can go
into this if I wanted to go to let's say desktop I do C D desktop and now if I do less I see that I
have untitled folder because that's the only thing on my desktop right now.
I can also do C D dot dot and this brings me back to one directory up I can also do clear to clear up
my terminal and have a nice fresh slate there's a stroke command C.D. slash and this takes me to the
root directory if I do else I see that I have applications library system users that's the root directory
of my Mac essentially my Macintosh HD I can also do C.D. squiggly line and this takes me to the user
directory let's clear this again and if we check where we are.
All right let's change just untitled folder to something like test ok let's say I'm in the user directory
right now I wanted to access desktop and then the test folder I would simply do C.D. desktop and then
test and now I'm in the test full there but there's nothing in there.
So one thing we can do is I can say open dot and it opens a folder that we're currently in OK we're
in the test folder now if I just put this to the side of here so you can see I can say make directory
which is make a folder name so name here will be whatever I want the folder to be titled Let's just
say this folder would be called
did you see that.
Now web app shows up in my folder let's change of view here so you can see it better.
There you go.
If I do LSD now I see that we have the web app folder and as we know we can go into it and let's double
click here to see what we have.
We have absolutely nothing.
Well we can create a file in here by saying touch and the name of the file.
So let's just do index dot HDMI amount.
There you go and X that cinema.
Now what if we wanted to open this index that Asian all.
Again we just do open and the dot means we open the folder we're currently in which is here.
But if I do open index dot HDMI l it opens the file for us.
How cool is that.
But index that HMO is pretty empty right now wouldn't be nice if we can open Sublime Text from here
and add something again he can do that with open.
You put in a line a for application and the name of the application so sublime text close the double
quotes press enter and look at that.
I have Sublime Text but if we wanted to do application sublime texts and open the index that a shemale
file would just do this and now I can say AML and we'll just say hello world save that and if I do open
index start HRT mouth we have our index that Asian male file loaded.
Wasn't that a lot faster than right clicking creating a folder then dragging everything to sublime tax.
And as you can see you can do things really really fast here.
OK.
Let's change something.
Let's.
I'm going to close Google Chrome and sublime and in the web app lets say I wanted to change the name
of index that a simple to above the HMO.
Well I'll do the end the command which stands for move but it just moves the index that Asia mail file
to about that issue mail file.
So it's a little trick.
You're essentially just moving one file to another but by changing the name you create a new file and
you replace it with the old one.
So now I have about Dot HMO very cool.
Now these commands typing them can get pretty tiring.
I can press the up arrow and it goes through my entire history which is very cool.
I can also press the tap key and it will bring up my most recent command or complete.
So what I'm about to write so you can do it really really fast.
And when your commands get longer and longer it's a very useful thing to do.
I don't really need the about HCM I'll file anymore.
Let's remove it.
We do our M for a move and the name of the file about groups about that patient AML it's been removed.
Perfect.
Now what about the way that file.
We can remove that as well.
But if I just do remove web app
it's not going to work.
First of all if I do l s or present working directory I mean the web app folder.
So I need to move back to the test folder.
Let's clear here.
Do C.D. now my present working directory is I'm in the test so I can remove web app by doing remove
web app but our m only works for files to remove a directory a folder you need to do R.M. and then use
the r option and then the folder name in the our case has the web app.
There you go.
It's gone.
And with that you know we can remove the test folder as well.
We can go back to our desktop and then do remove our test.
There you go.
It's gone.
And one last trick on a Mac.
You can do this.
This is so cool.
Right.
Very very cool OK.
As you can see you can have a lot of power with the terminal and I want you to get used to writing commands
on here.
And from now on try creating files and folders this way.
Eventually you will get more and more comfortable with it and things will be much faster than just using
the gooey and the developer environment section.
I'll show you how you can change this boring black and white terminal to something like this.
That's it for now.
See you in the next venue.
But by.